---
layout: post
title: "CMU 15-721 SPRING 2023 Advanced Database Systems, reading summaries"
subtitle: "CMU advanced databases"
date: 2023-04-02
author: "Niklas Hansson"
URL: "/2023/04/02/rust-foreign-data-wrappers-postgres-rust"
---

This article will be continuesly update based upon the read articles. The whole schedule can be found [here](https://15721.courses.cs.cmu.edu/spring2023/schedule.html). 



# [Building An Elastic Query Engine on Disaggregated Storage](https://15721.courses.cs.cmu.edu/spring2023/papers/02-modern/vuppalapati-nsdi22.pdf)

The paper is about the design and implementation of snowflake based upon the changes in cloud infrastructure such as hardware and billing leading up to the paper. 

Snowflake is designed with based upon: 
1) Compute and storage elasticity(separated)
2) Support for multi tenancy
3) High performance

The authors state that shared nothing, data split between nodes where each node only work on the that node, has been the foundation. They state that the main drawbacks of this approach is: 

- Not possible to scale compute and storage separately in a easy way(and handle changes due to data age etc). 
- Miss match between storage/compute

Further the authors argue that the data has changed and there has been a growth in uncontrolled sources and thus more unpredictable query patterns(both load and time). 

Snowflake aim for a separation between storage and compute relying on blob storage. Snowflake uses a custom-designed storage system for managing ephemeral/intermediate results, this is needed in order to improve the network latency and throughput of blob storage in order to not bottleneck the processing. Empheral storage is also used as cache in order to reduce network load and speed up queries. The empheral storage is however not decoupled from the compute. 

